ABBY: Previously, on "Dance Moms"--
CATHY: We're starting a new ballgame.
This is our opportunity
to build and get strong.
We just want to take a look at the space.
Oh, my goodness, this is the next stop.
WOMAN: On lunge again.
Two arms up in high fifth.
Shoulders down.
CATHY: Well, Anthony,
show myself what you've got to offer.
Oh, [beep].
Put your mouth on vacation.
You told my daughter--
[interposing voices]
[suspenseful music]
ABBY: Coming up on "Dance Moms"--
ABBY: Maddie's doing a solo
at "Abby's Ultimate Dance Competition."
You want to go to dinner tonight,
you better get it together.
DONNA: Jalen's going to go against Mari.
RICK: Jalen will beat Mari hands down.
ANTHONY: You can't find your legs.
Plie.
ANNOUNCER: From "Dance Moms,"
Maddie of The Abby Lee Dance Company.
[cheers and applause]
ANTHONY: I really don't understand
why you're so dysfunctional.
CATHY: Because you have called me a joke.
[suspenseful music]
My gosh, are you crying? She's crying.
I'm not going to put up with that.
Ideally, I want a team of five.
You can do the math.
[THEME - NIKKO LOWE, "LIVING ON
THE DANCE FLOOR"]
(SINGING) Get up, get on the floor.
My world is with my girls.
Living on the dance floor!
[suspenseful music]
ABBY: I'm in sunny California,
shooting the second season
of "Abby's Ultimate Dance Competition."
And we want somebody
to perform on the show.
Of course, Maddie jumped at the
opportunity to come out to LA and perform.
5, 6--
They'll give you a tick, tick, tick,
and then you go.
And you're going to go
and look up at that like-- sh.
Right. Ready?
(SINGING) Oh.
ABBY: Maddie lives for dance.
She loves it. She's all about it.
Hey, did the other kids want to come?
I guess not.
I think Maddie was definitely
the smart one--
getting to meet new people,
getting to see these incredible dancers
from around the country, and networking.
In every job situation, it's not always
what you know, but who you know.
Take your time.
It's okay, you can be after the music.
You can be after the music.
Nice.
While I'm busy in Hollywood
with my own TV show,
Cathy is back in Ohio,
doing Lord knows what.
She tried to have an all-boys team.
Did it work? Mm.
Cathy, there's only one me,
and you're never going to catch me.
You've got to have the sucker down, okay?
So let's try not to do too much playing.
Let's do-- let's dance
and make everybody look bad.
[music playing]
CATHY: How is everybody?
ALL: Good.
I really want Candy Apples
to be a household name.
And I want Candy Apples
to be professional dancers.
I didn't cut anybody last week,
but I only want the best dancers
for the Candy Apple Core.
Not everybody's safe this week.
Anthony, it looks like
he's got a book of notes.
I have made no bones in letting
him know what our roles are--
owner of the dance studio, employer.
Choreographer, employee.
So here we are again, pyramid time.
I am losing that pyramid.
And I am introducing the Apple Tree.
Oh, look at that.
We're going to start at the top
of the tree. We have Nick.
Obviously, no questions there
from the peanut gallery.
Nick, you were the man of the competition.
[music playing]
[cheers and applause]
You were stupendous.
DONNA: Cathy has a little
connection with Nick.
Nick's put a lot of time into this,
working hard with Anthony and Cathy.
And he deserves to get some special parts,
get some solos.
Nick should be Cathy's leading man.
The next stunning Apple, it is Hadley.
[clapping]
YVETTE: I was hoping Hadley
would be on the top.
She's a very advanced dancer
at the age of 12.
When Cathy called to invite Hadley
to her team, I was thrilled.
Versus Abby Lee Miller, she
doesn't care about anything but winning,
and if it's even taking a kid down,
it doesn't matter to her.
(SINGING) Open up your light tonight.
YVETTE: Abby tried to break Hadley.
KEVIN: Abby, I'm reading your facial
expression, and you don't seem that happy.
ABBY: Should I say roadkill?
AUDIENCE: Oh.
CATHY: Okay, let's move on.
Let's see who's in this Apple position.
We have Nicaya on the tree.
Even though she's not here,
Nicaya is next on the Apple Tree.
She dropped everything last week
to come and represent Candy Apples.
There's always going to be a spot for her.
Next, we have Zack.
GINA: I feel like Zack really
is an excellent leading man.
He's always been a leader.
I mean, that's just who he is.
I think Cathy is a great mentor.
I think she's a great teacher.
And I think she's a great coach.
I'm dancing with Candy Apples
because I feel like
it's a really positive environment.
I do want to beat Abby for Cathy.
CATHY: Next we have Jalen.
RICK: My son Jalen is 11 years old,
a b-boy from Seattle.
He's a breakdancer.
He's self-taught for the most part.
His background is not really
strong in choreography,
but what he does, he is amazing at.
CATHY: Finally, we've got Mari.
GINA D: Mari has one title in Indiana,
Ohio.
I want Mari to have the best possible
opportunities in the industry.
And I feel that Cathy
is a leader in the industry.
And if anybody is going to get
my little girl known, it's Cathy.
CATHY: That leaves Campbell.
You didn't do the dance.
ALLI: Cathy is looking
for her ultimate dream team.
I think that she's going to get a chance
to prove
that she's something other than
what they think she is.
CAMPBELL: I'm not here just to be friends
with everybody.
I'm here because I want to dance.
My mom made me for one reason,
one reason, only to dance.
CATHY: This week, we are going to Masters
of Dance in Columbus, Ohio.
We will be doing a group dance.
It's going to be fun.
ANTHONY: The dance will be entitled
"So Chic."
I don't know what "chic" means.
I really don't.
ANTHONY: You know, it's about
over-the-top characters, the Club Kids.
CATHY: Then we're going to be doing
a duet.
And my leading man Nick
and my leading lady Hadley.
[cheers and applause]
HADLEY: Nick and I are
kind of battling each other.
He's amazing,
and he really pushes me to do better.
Nick and Hadley, the title of your duet
will be "Tribal Affair."
It's going to be sort of
a contemporary style this week.
CATHY: All right, so that brings us
to our solos.
Jalen, you've got a solo this week.
[cheers and applause]
ANTHONY: And Jalen, the title of your
solo will be "One Last Goodbye."
With that said, I'm gonna give you
a contemporary routine this week.
- Yes?
WOMAN: Wow.
CATHY: Jalen's forte, by far,
is spinning on his head.
But I need to see that Jalen
is more than just a b-boy.
It's time that he step up
and be an all-around dancer.
And we have one other solo to pass out.
Mari, you're going to get an opportunity.
[cheers and applause]
I'm still on the fence about Mari.
She was sick last week.
There is nothing worse
than a dancer full of excuses.
ANTHONY: Mari, your solo will be entitled
"Still I Rise."
CATHY: I still have to trim the fat.
I still would like to tighten up
my team a little bit.
Mari and Jalen aren't so safe.
Thanks, moms! Thanks, dad!
Let's get warmed up, guys.
YVETTE: Okay, that was intense.
RICK: It was, definitely was.
YVETTE: But I think the whole process
is a test. They're testing all the kids.
I don't need a test.
I kind of feel bad that Cathy
is going to cut a person.
I'm not comfortable at all.
CATHY: So guys, let's talk about the dance
this week, okay?
You guys are Club Kids.
It's all about being who you are,
and you expressing yourself.
I need to see your interpretation
of this song, okay?
5, 6, and a 7, and a-- ah.
RICK: Come on, J, show them that swag.
There it is.
There you go. Hoo!
CATHY: This week's dance
is going to be so much fun.
It's a hip hop number,
and it's called "So Chic."
It's about Club Kids who like to go out
in ostentatious clothes,
and they just like to go clubbing.
Not only do they have to nail
their choreography,
but they're also characters.
And that has to come across to the judges.
(SINGING) Shut down all red carpet lane.
ANTHONY: Work that form! Hit it hard!
Hey!
GINA D: I'm not making an excuse,
but there is something to be said
for when a dancer doesn't
typically dance in bare feet.
Mari was kind of given a bad rap. And I
think she got a lot of [beep] for nothing.
Cathy is making it clear that she's gonna
take this team of six down to five.
I'm a little nervous.
My vote is going to be Mari.
RICK: Honestly, I'm really worried
about Jalen this week.
GINA D: I'm worried about Mari as well.
- Jalen's going to go against Mari.
- Right.
RICK: Jalen will beat Mari hands down,
without a doubt.
Really? Knock it off.
RICK: Don't hate. Don't hate. Don't hate.
YVETTE: Rick is stressing out.
Rick definitely feels that
this is something brand-new for Jalen.
CATHY: Hey, you ready for this?
We want to keep you on this team, Jalen,
but we need to see you grow
every single week.
The fact that Jalen just knows
how to do hip hop
and has no formal technique,
I can't let that ruin the group dances.
ANTHONY: I want you to break,
see the ceiling.
6, 7, 8, and 1, stop.
You've got to just be there.
The challenge this week is to get
Jalen to do a triple pirouette.
If you can do three spins on your head,
you can do it on one foot.
So it's important to get Jalen
to be able to understand his ability.
And if Jalen doesn't hit
that triple pirouette,
I'm afraid we're going to have to cut him.
CATHY: Jalen, just remember,
you're not getting to use
any of your tricks this week.
- No, keep your ankles together.
ANTHONY: Keep your ankles together.
Yes.
On top of the feet, on top of that releve.
On top of that forced arch.
And 1, 2--
DONNA: And we're
going to be here late tonight
because he's still working on Jalen,
and we haven't even got to Mari yet.
I wish he would start Mari's a little bit
just even the intro.
Jalen needs the extra coaching
because he's not a contemporary dancer.
Mari is.
RICK: I need to ask him if I can record
that before he's done with him.
GINA D: Oh, no, Rick. What about Mari?
RICK: One of the hardest things about
being the only man
in the "kiss and cry" room is that
women have to understand,
we express ourselves differently.
Out! Then go in!
Out! In!
GINA D: I do feel, in some ways,
Mari is being almost set up to fail
because she's not getting
the rehearsal time with Anthony.
I know they're in there,
but I think that it's okay for us
to go in and get you stretched.
So why don't we do that?
Stretch.
- Oh, jeez.
- That way?
DONNA: She'd get enough time.
If a parent busted in on my rehearsal,
they'd be looking for a new dance studio.
GINA D: Anthony, can't we start Mari?
[suspenseful music]
[music playing]
CATHY: Okay, so I've got time today
to do something
that I've been wanting to do for a while.
And you're going to help me.
I need to catalog all of these bunnies.
We were going to categorize
ceramic bunnies, bunnies that are gifts,
antique bunnies, how many I have,
and if we need more.
We'll have fun.
This is something we could do together.
You know, they say we're a hoppy family.
Sometimes, stepping away
is what I need to do.
So I'm going to do my two favorite things.
I'm going to spend some time
with my adorable Vivi,
and I'm going to catalog my bunnies.
This by far would be Jill
because this is a manly bunny.
And I'll bet you, on her days off,
that she smokes a pipe.
Yeah, yeah. Okay. Well, let's move on.
I would say that, that bunny right there
would be Abby on the run
with armloads full of food.
[music playing]
ANTHONY: So I'm going
to put some music on, okay?
I was hired by Cathy
to be her resident choreographer.
I have worked with Beyonce.
I have worked with Rihanna,
Destiny's Child, Mary J Blige,
Katy Perry. I have the experience.
I have the knowledge.
And I know what it takes to make a star.
This dance is called "Still I Rise."
And I expect you to rise
to the occasion, Mari.
And I want to capitalize
on your strengths.
Because you could be a great dancer here,
but if you don't step up,
I'm afraid you're gonna be
shipped on out of here, Mari.
[suspenseful music]
GINA D: I think Mari's nervous about
having the solo this week
not because Mary isn't accustomed
to doing solos,
but Mari's a little nervous
in working with Anthony.
Oh, no. Listen, listen.
[MUSIC - TRADING VOICES, "RED
MOON RISING"]
Go. Huh!
Where's the energy in the finger, Mari?
Mari's underperforming
because she's not believing in herself.
It's not going to be easy,
but she needs to be pushed.
You're slipping and sliding all over
the place like it's an ice skating rink.
One more time, from the beginning.
See all that fidgeting in between?
You see what I'm saying?
This is exactly what I'm talking about
with you.
[suspenseful music]
Okay, is she crying?
What's going on?
Huh?
What happened? What's going on?
GINA D: When Mari has an asthma attack,
she clearly can't breathe.
My little sweet angel.
At this point, because of the issues
that Mary's had since coming here,
I needed Cathy in there, because Cathy is
a little more of a nurturing soul.
[MUSIC - PAILBOY, "TOFURKEY"]
ANTHONY: 5, 6, 7, 8. Boom, fa.
This week, Cathy picked Nick and Hadley
a duet, "Tribal Affair."
1, 2, 3, 4.
One, take step. Step, pop, step, step.
Up, down.
The costume's sweet. Great, great
costumes. I'm so excited.
CATHY: After Mari's meltdown,
it's clear to me
that I've given Anthony too much space.
ANTHONY: Look, look. Step, kick, up--
CATHY: I'm not going to feel like a guest
in my own studio.
I need to have my input and to have some
hands-on with these dancers.
I thought maybe we could take a moment
to help them understand breathing.
Hadley's got to be completely wild
and wear head gear
that's very, very flamboyant.
And it's going to affect Nick as well.
Hadley, when you kick him,
take that as a moment to breathe
because he's going into the next pass.
You just take a moment to breathe.
DONNA: I think that Cathy
might cut somebody today
if she doesn't see them perform
in the number.
RICK: By the end of this week,
they're just going to be gone.
You're not going to be here.
So guys, Club Kids.
I have a friend, Malik So Chic.
This is the guy whose song
we're performing to.
[music playing]
CHILD: Anthony, is that a guy?
ANTHONY: Yes.
Malik So Chic, a very good friend of mine,
the biggest fashionista socialite
in the New York party scene.
He's the star whenever
he walks into any room.
All the boys can make 30 push-ups quickly.
CATHY: Anthony wants the kids
to do push-ups.
ANTHONY: Lower, Zack.
If it's for conditioning,
I'm okay with it.
Why don't you do something like--
ANTHONY: Zack, your push-ups.
CATHY: You just interrupted
what we were doing.
You stay over there with the ladies,
and I'll stay over here with the men.
I'm not interrupting.
And you need to mind your p's and q's,
that means polite and quiet.
ANTHONY: This is my p's and q's.
This is my p and q.
CATHY: No, I'm sorry. It's not.
You think p's and q's
are something you eat.
Just go on and be quiet.
CATHY: What? See, corny.
- It's corny. Be quiet.
Corny, all you're thinking about is food.
Is your name Abby Lee?
ANTHONY: You had me here
because of my resume.
You know that I have the information
to be here, so let me do what I do.
My passion is to get you guys looking
the way that I want you to do.
I'm going to go about it
the way that I want to.
Now give me 20 push-ups.
- We're doing the push-ups for no reason.
ANTHONY: So what?
Well, because I don't want
to do push-ups for no reason.
ANTHONY: It's just about strength.
And if I thought you have one
weak member, you're all weak.
[suspenseful music]
WOMAN: Baby boy.
RICK: Then why aren't
the girls doing push-ups?
ANTHONY: I'm sorry.
- Why aren't the girls doing push-ups?
ANTHONY: Because girls don't do push-ups.
RICK: Why not?
ANTHONY: I don't want them to,
that's why.
Rick has absolutely no idea
what he's talking about.
The girls are not doing push-ups because
they need soft and dainty arms.
I'm not going to have no girls
looking like He-Man.
[door banging]
RICK: I didn't have a father growing up.
[dramatic music]
I didn't have--
someone to support me.
Were you looking out for yourself?
I didn't bring you here for this.
I brought you here to learn,
to broaden your horizons and your dance.
I didn't have someone to protect me.
I didn't have that figure there
to tell me,
no matter what happens,
I'm gonna protect you.
I know you want to be here for that team,
and I know you want to do
what you can for the team,
but I cannot let someone
treat you in that manner.
DONNA: Where is J?
GINA: And Rick?
DONNA: He was pretty heated yesterday.
Rick is so unpredictable.
I have no idea where he is.
He's supposed to be here,
but he needed a cooling-off period.
Well, wouldn't it be nice if we all had
that time
to just cool off
if we got upset about something.
That's unacceptable.
He would not be allowed back in.
[suspenseful music]
RICK: Jalen really wants to be here.
Although he wants to be here,
he has to understand,
I have to protect him as a parent first.
I think that Rick does come off
disrespectful sometimes.
I would love if he would
take it back a notch.
Hey, guys, good morning!
[interposing voices]
I know that you are upset.
And all I'm going to say is that I will be
trying to make the best situation.
I need to talk to Anthony,
and it's not going to be easy.
Anthony has definitely helped to establish
this whole new Candy Apple,
but what does it matter
if he's chasing kids away?
Every time we work together, there's
a situation where you hurt my feelings.
I feel that there should be a line
that neither one of us cross.
I don't think that you're here
to give these kids discipline.
- Dance is a discipline.
- But those kids don't need discipline.
But you have to understand-- yes, they do.
Cathy's biggest weakness is babying them.
We fight a lot
because she's always in my face.
And I think you have to respect me
and my space when I'm in there.
That's the only thing that I require.
I don't have to walk out of here
and feel like I'm less than
because you have called me a joke.
ANTHONY: Cathy-- Cathy!
You think about it.
No, Cathy. Come here, Cathy.
Here we go again.
ALLI: When Anthony starts screaming
and yelling at Cathy, and swearing,
I am not--
that is not okay with me.
Campbell and I are here for Cathy.
It's Cathy's studio.
And at the end of the day,
she's the one signing his checks.
ANTHONY: I don't think
that you're a joke.
Well, then don't say it.
When you say things
that hurt my feelings--
CATHY: Well, you hurt my feelings first.
And I'm going to get upset with you
like an alley cat.
And that's exactly what it is.
It's a retaliation thing.
And you started them.
You started them.
Okay, but then I have to finish it.
But you won't finish it
because I am that vindictive.
Okay, then let me have
the last word right now.
- You've got it, Cathy.
- No!
[suspenseful music]
That wasn't a word.
I like Anthony, and I like
what he brings to Candy Apples.
But what I don't like is I feel like
it's right around the corner,
that another argument could happen.
[music playing]
ABBY: Right here needs to be lit.
And then Maddie leaves there.
She--
She grand jetés this way.
Maddie has her work cut out for her.
The other contestants on
"Abby's Ultimate Dance Competition"
they've been here for weeks.
Maddie is walking in cold.
She has no idea
where the cameras are going to be,
what angles they're going to hit.
She doesn't know
how slippery the floor is.
This technical rehearsal
is going to be rough.
Maddie needs to pay close attention,
so that she always hits her marks.
Is that a good angle?
You can see that picture?
Okay? And down.
So when this show airs, we want
her performance to be flawless.
Come on, Maddie. No pressure.
[suspenseful music]
Got to reach to us.
Reach like, uh, help me!
Yes.
Cathy's kids, they're not really her kids.
She didn't train them.
So it's all about Maddie.
I'm really not too concerned with Cathy.
And that's the last time
I'm saying her name.
[suspenseful music]
ANTHONY: Ready to dance?
So let's go from the top.
Full out, okay?
This is a crucial rehearsal for Mari.
This rehearsal today will reflect that
Mari will be a part of the team or not.
(SINGING) It's in the air.
ANTHONY: And drop.
(SINGING) It's down below.
Everywhere we go.
ANTHONY: Bop! Bop!
It seems like she's responding
a lot better to Anthony,
I think, today than she was.
ANTHONY: Bop, bop. Bop, bop. Boom, boom.
Bop, yes. Okay?
I think she's feeling a little more
comfortable with him.
Anthony is exhibiting
a softer side today with Mari.
A little bit more personality,
but I hate the music.
You got people thinking you can't do
this. I know you can.
The technique is there.
Let's go again.
What don't you like about the music?
What is it-- what is it about it?
It sounds country to me.
The way I get it,
you don't like the music.
You've been kind of upset
since you've been here.
Nothing is really jiving for you.
YVETTE: There's definitely
a tension with Gi and Rick.
Sounds like to me, if she doesn't win,
you're going right back to,
well, it was because of this,
or it was because of that,
or it was because of this.
Both their kids have a solo,
and they're both competing
really against each other.
So it's intense.
Excuse after excuse after excuse.
GINA D: I'm not making excuses for Mari.
Mari had legitimate reasons
as to why there were some setbacks.
ALLI: Do we all agree
that the proof is in the pudding?
RICK: I agree, the proof is in the
pudding.
ALLI: All right, then I think tomorrow
will speak volumes.
CATHY: Today, we are at Masters
of Dance in Columbus, Ohio.
And some of the finest dance studios
in this area are here competing.
This is the second week with this team,
and there has been tension
all over the board.
And I just am not seeing any unity.
I'm not seeing this team come together
the way I want it to.
I just hope everyone puts
their personal best out on stage.
RICK: Hey.
- Look what I brought.
WOMAN: Oh, my God.
WOMAN: Another mascot?
CATHY: Anybody
who doesn't do well today
gets to take it home
and take care of all of its poop turds.
- Who doesn't do well?
CATHY: Yeah.
I absolutely love bunnies.
And people do rabbit foot for good luck,
so we've got the whole bunny
for our mascot.
I just want to put out there to you,
this is our second competition together
as one big, happy family.
Okay?
Do you remember what I said last week?
I said that, ideally,
I wanted a team of five.
You can do the math.
JALEN: I feel kind of nervous because
what if it's going to be me
who had to leave the team.
CATHY: I'm going to go check in.
So get ready, guys,
because I'm excited for a big day.
[suspenseful music]
GINA D: I hope Mari's not the one
going home.
I'm hoping that Mari will prove herself,
and maybe she'll earn a spot on that team.
CATHY: I think that Rick is probably
pretty nervous about Jalen
doing this contemporary piece.
I think that Rick is very confident
when Jalen is spinning on his head.
But I think that he's probably a little
nervous, he wants Jalen on this team.
[laughing]
[cheers and applause]
ANTHONY: Pirouette,
what's the pirouette position?
Fum fum fum fum fum fum.
Okay, go work on that. That's good.
[suspenseful music]
You're going to nail those three turns,
yeah?
RICK: Anthony tells Jalen
he's got to nail a triple pirouette.
I'm happy he has that faith in Jalen,
but are we being set up to fail?
I just want the both of you to know,
it's about you two.
I think you're in the same category, yeah?
ALL: Yeah.
- Oh, wow, we have a contest.
GINA D: I'm a little bit worried
about Mari going up with Jalen
because, once again, Rick is gloating,
and he is confident.
And I guess the way I approach things,
I never say,
I've got it in the bag, because
there's always a chance that you don't.
I think you're going to do great.
Squeeze your center.
Don't rush. Breathe. Just relax.
You got it, okay?
Oh, we're ready. Let's do it.
- You're ready, kiddo?
RICK: Jalen's not ready to go,
- Jalen's ready to win.
CATHY: May the best dancer win.
[cheers and applause]
ANNOUNCER: All right, moving
ahead just a little bit with the program,
with entry number 19, 1-9.
Elite Junior Solo division,
this is Mari with "Still I Rise."
CATHY: I need to know that Mari
can perform under pressure.
Last week, she was sick. And this week,
she got so nervous in rehearsal.
This time, there should be no excuses.
I want her to be amazing.
(SINGING) I can feel it
when the day goes down.
And I can feel it when you're not around.
You can hide behind the clouds for now.
Keep yourself concealed.
You won't change the way I feel.
[instrumental music]
GINA D: I think Mari
may have forgotten a step,
and so she ad-libbed a little bit,
which is a smart thing to do.
But I don't think Anthony's
going to be happy about it.
(SINGING) Then pull you close to me.
[drumming]
[cheers and applause]
CATHY: Mari did a great job with her solo,
although there was a portion
where she forgot.
That's cracking under pressure to me.
ANNOUNCER: All right, coming
to the stage next Elite Junior Solo
we have entry number 21.
CATHY: All of my dancers
have to be able to do a triple pirouette.
And Jalen is no exception.
ANNOUNCER: Jalen with "One Last Goodbye."
[cheers and applause]
RICK: Yeah, J!
Whoo!
[MUSIC - TY TAYLOR, "ONE MORE
LAST GOODBYE"]
(SINGING) Suppose that you
were never mine,
and I was never yours.
Suppose that we could find a remedy.
One more goodbye, love, because my love
is unwilling to be gone.
One more, I will cry, love,
because my love
is still here holding on.
JALEN: On stage, I messed up.
I did not do much of a pirouette.
I think Cathy will be proud of me
because at least I didn't get frustrated,
and I did the rest of my routine.
(SINGING) --last goodbye!
[cheers and applause]
(SINGING) One more--
One more last goodbye!
[cheers and applause]
[suspenseful music]
ANNOUNCER: That was entry number 21,
Jalen, with "One Last Goodbye."
MARI: Jalen has a really big chance of
winning
because he uses a lot of emotion
when he dances.
And I think the judges are really into it.
WOMAN: Oh-oh. Hold on.
I see a straight line here.
- You look underwhelmed.
- What's wrong?
We need to be realistic.
[suspenseful music]
CATHY: Jalen left the door open
with that triple.
No, he didn't. They didn't know he
wasn't-- supposed to do a triple.
And he didn't feel that he can land it,
so he improvised,
so he wouldn't ruin his dance.
I think Jalen did a phenomenal job.
WOMAN: He danced smarter.
CATHY: But next time, he has to do
the triple, if there's a next time.
ANTHONY: Mari did good. Mari did okay.
She was strongest out in her turns.
But half of the dance,
she's just walked around.
WOMAN: I know. What happened there?
CATHY: She forgot. She forgot her dance.
I don't know.
CATHY: How do you think she did
against Jalen?
GINA D: I don't even want to guess and
jinx that
because I think both of them
have their strong points.
Somebody's going home.
CATHY: We are really stressing out
right now.
At this point,
we need to get prepared for the duet.
WOMAN: Can you put that on?
WOMAN: Here's some pins and--
CATHY: My gosh, she did--
poor kid's falling forward.
WOMAN: Are you nervous?
WOMAN: I'm sorry, sorry.
WOMAN: Hadley, are you nervous?
You seem nervous.
CATHY: My gosh, are you crying?
She's crying.
No, she's good.
Hadley is my strongest dancer.
I need her to get herself under control
to score high with the judges.
I don't know what's going on
with her right now.
YVETTE: She has faith in both of you.
- You all right?
The headpiece for the "Tribal Affair"
is humongous.
And I noticed that Hadley's starting
to get really upset and concerned.
All she kept saying was, okay,
I don't think
that I'm going to be able to go out there
and try to go for the win
with this on my head. Mom, I can't do it.
I'm not wearing this headpiece.
'Cause she's never ever had something
that large on her head before.
So I said to Hadley, you need
to borrow my strength right now.
How would you change this headpiece
to make it feel better?
WOMAN: Can you give me a safety pin?
CATHY: Do you not want to wear it?
What do you wanna wear?
YVETTE: We'll practice in it.
- No practice.
I think there's a lot of tension this
week because
everyone wants to stay on this team,
but one person has to get cut.
It's all right. It's okay.
[suspenseful music]
[cheers and applause]
ANNOUNCER: All right, the next in the
Junior Duet/Trio division,
this is entry number 34--
Nicholas and Hadley with "Tribal Affair."
CATHY: Hadley's having a meltdown
because the headpiece is extremely heavy.
She's got to do some very
difficult partnering.
And she's just a nervous wreck, that she's
not going to do well for Candy Apples.
[music - pailboy, "tofurkey"]
(SINGING) Mm, if you want me to stay,
I'll be around the way.
I send this message over to you now.
And if you want me to go,
I will be out that door.
And you will never, ever, ever,
ever, ever, ever see me around.
[clapping]
[cheers and applause]
YVETTE: I think the costuming
was phenomenal.
I think the choreography was brilliant.
And they pulled it off.
It was a great day for them.
[cheers and applause]
HADLEY: With all the drama this week,
with the headpiece and everything,
it was just such a relief.
That was so great.
WOMAN: We need to get ready for group.
- Yes, please get ready for the group.
[cheers and applause]
ABBY: It is the grand finale of "Abby's
Ultimate Dance Competition."
And right now, it's all about Maddie.
This routine shows
that Maddie truly is a star.
For our first non-competition
performance of the evening,
we have Maddie
of The Abby Lee Dance Company,
and she's choreographed by Abby.
Make some noise for them.
[cheers and applause]
(SINGING) Oh.
Oh, won't you save my soul?
I know it's been a while.
Oh, but I've got nowhere to go.
Oh!
And I'll
give it one more try.
[cheers and applause]
ABBY: Her performance gave people chills.
It shows I'm making kids better, stronger.
Cathy needs to realize
that she is not in my league.
ANTHONY: Three minutes, guys.
Hey, guys, I have a really, really
special surprise for you guys.
Here comes some more fabulosity.
[cheering]
ANTHONY: Hi, guys.
ALL: Hi.
ANTHONY: So this is--
so this is my friend, Malik So Chic.
He's one of New York's top fashionistas,
top socialites, top party promoter.
This guy is the guy in New York City.
YVETTE: I'm attracted to Malik.
And the reason is because
he's so confident within himself.
MALIK SO CHIC: Don't mess up
because it is my song,
and I'm going to be
watching very, very closely.
WOMAN: It's the coolest song ever.
MALIK SO CHIC: Thank you so much.
WOMAN: I love it.
- Go out there and get them, guys.
[cheers and applause]
ANNOUNCER: All right, now next
in the Junior Small Group division,
we have entry number 60.
This is entitled
"The Club Kids and So Chic."
Yeah!
(SINGING) Greenwich, Greenwich,
hate on me. Socialite, drop, yo.
Head spins, lesbians caught me working.
[inaudible]
I don't dance. No, I don't dance.
No, I, I, I, I I don't dance.
No, I don't dance. No, I don't dance.
No, I, I, I, I, I don't dance.
I do walk, walk, walk. And I pose.
So, so chic. So, so, so chic.
So, so, so chic.
I don't dance. No, I don't dance.
No, I, I I, I, I don't dance.
No, I don't dance. No, I don't dance.
No, I, I, I, I, I don't dance.
I do walk, walk, walk. And I pose.
So, so, so chic. I do walk, walk, walk.
RICK: [laughing] Work it up!
(SINGING) So chic. So, so, so chic.
So, so, so chic. So, so--
I do walk, walk, walk. And I pose.
Duck walk, duck walk.
Work, work, now death drop.
[cheers and applause]
- Great job!
- Oh, yeah!
Fabulous.
CATHY: "So Chic" was so much fun
and very entertaining.
I'm definitely going to take the judges
scoring into consideration
as far as who stays and who goes.
ANNOUNCER: How are
you guys doing tonight?
Heck of a time.
Please give them a round of applause.
[cheers and applause]
For our Elite Junior Duo/Trio
division of competition,
the first runner-up with
a score of 181.3 points
is act number 47, "Why not?"
And your highest scoring
Elite Junior Duo/Trio
with a score of 284 points is
act number 34, "Tribal Affair."
[cheers and applause]
YVETTE: Hadley and Nick won first place.
We are so excited.
GINA: Hadley's dancing speaks for itself.
She's on the A-team.
I'm nervous because I want
Zack to be a Candy Apple.
ANNOUNCER: Okay, moving right along
is the Elite Junior Solo
division of competition--
CATHY: Jalen and Mari have been dancing
head to head all week long.
There's been an awful lot of talk
amongst the parents about who's better.
And we're about to find out.
ANNOUNCER: In 10th place,
with a score of 277.5 points
is Miss Montana with act
number 39, "Runaway Baby."
[cheers and applause]
And at ninth place, with
a score of 277.9 points
is Mr. Jalen with act number 21,
"One Last Goodbye."
[cheers and applause]
In eighth place,
with a score of 278.4 points
is Miss Mari with act number 19,
"Still I Rise."
[cheers and applause]
CATHY: I'm not particularly happy
with either Mari or Jalen's placement.
Quite frankly, they should
have taken it upon themselves
to work even harder
to get a higher placement.
ANNOUNCER: And now for our Elite Junior
Small Groups,
in third place with a score of 208.5
points
is act number 62, "Teacher's Pet."
[cheers and applause]
Your first runner-up
with a score of 281.7 points
is act number 60,
"The Club Kids and So Chic."
[cheers and applause]
And then your highest scoring
Elite Junior Small Group
is act number 61, "He's my Son."
[cheers and applause]
CATHY: I don't know that I'm completely
disappointed with second place.
Sure, I always like to be a winner,
but there's going to be other
teams out there that might come along
that are deservingly so
of that first place spot.
[cheers and applause]
Guys, you could have been top overall.
I just want to point out,
the school, that one, very versatile.
We can't be average.
ANTHONY: We may not have
went home with a top overall,
but they're definitely going
to remember our names today.
Oh, yeah.
CATHY: We did great with the Duo/Trio.
That cannot be taken away from them.
They are A-listers on that.
Lots of things that everybody
needs to think about.
I was really hoping that
between Jalen and Mari,
that we would see a clear-cut winner.
I have to cut somebody. But what stinks
is, it appears that my choreographer--
who I'm investing a lot in--
could possibly be my big problem.
Okay, so here we are again.
You coming down to my level, big guy?
Is Anthony the Apple that's
going to have to get cut?
You've got to control yourself,
or I don't have any respect
to those people.
I have invested time, money,
and my reputation in Anthony.
So Anthony, not only do I want them
to do a lot of soul searching,
I want you to do some soul searching, too.
With the money that I've invested
in Anthony,
I could buy some designer handbags.
So great choreographer, new Louis?
ANTHONY: But I'm going to be fine
regardless.
NARRATOR: Next time, juicy gossip--
JEFF: The fansites are
all buzzing about Abby dating.
She has two boyfriends.
NARRATOR: --some
out-of-control Dance Moms.
KAYA WILEY: You have to put on
a tough front with these bitches.
You have to be--
NARRATOR: --and smack-talking superfans.
This is our chance to be Dance Moms.
NARRATOR: Plus, joining us on stage,
our very own Dance Moms divas,
Christi and Kelly are here.
JEFF: You two had a pretty huge blowout.
I don't know if she's 100% on my side.
NARRATOR: This is "Dance Moms Chat."
CHRISTI: I never thought
I'd be Team Black Patsy,
but if you're calling her an [beep].
Abby, I might get on board.